# Build a String Inspector

## Step 01

In this workshop, you will practice working with the `includes()` and `slice()` methods.

To begin, create a variable named `fccSentence` and assign it the string `"freeCodeCamp is a great place to lerna web development"`

```js
    const fccSentence = "freeCodeCamp is a great place to learn web development.";
```

## Step 2

Use `console.log()` to log `"Here are some examples of the includes() method:` to the console.

```js
    console.log("Here are some examples of the includes() method:");
```

## Step 3

Create a variable named hasFreeCodeCamp. The assing it the result of using the `includes()` method on `fccSentence` to check if it contains `"freeCodeCamp"`.

```js
    const hasFreeCodeCamp = fccSentence.includes("freeCodeCamp");
```

## Step 4

Now use either a template literal or string concatenation to logo the message `fccSentence.includes("freeCodeCamp") returns <hasFreeCodeCamp> because the word "freeCodeCamp" is in the sentence.` to the console.Replace`<hasFreeCodeCamp>` with the actual value of the variable.

```js
    console.log(`fccSentence.includes("freeCodeCamp") returns ${hasFreeCodeCamp} because the word "freeCodeCamp" is in the sentence.`);
```

## Step 5

Now it is time see what happens when the substring is NOT found.

Create a variable named `hasJavaScript`. Then assing it the result of using `includes()` method to check if `fccSentence` includes `"JavaScript"`.

Then use either a template literal or string concatenation log the message `fccSentence.includes("JavaScript") returns <hasJavaScript> because the word "JavaScript" is not in the sentence.` to the console. Replace `<hasJavaScript>` with the actual value of the variable.

```js
    const hasJavaScript = fccSentence.includes("JavaScript");
console.log(`fccSentence.includes("JavaScript") returns ${hasJavaScript} because the word "JavaScript" is not in the sentence.`);
```

## Step 6

The `includes()` method is case-sensitive, meaning it distinguishes between uppercase and lowercase letters.

Create a variable named hasLowercaseFCC. Thane assing it the result of using the `includes()` method to creck if `fccSentence` includes `"freecodecamp"` (all lowercase).

Then use either a template literal or string concatentation to log the message `fccSentence.includes("freecodecamp") returns <hasLowercaseFCC> because includes is case-sensitive.` to console.Replace <hasLowercaseFCC> with the actual value of the variable.

```js
    const hasLowercaseFCC = fccSentence.includes("freecodecamp");
    console.log(`fccSentence.includes("freecodecamp") returns ${hasLowercaseFCC} because includes is case-sensitive.`);
```

## Step 7

Now you will explore the `slice()` method, which extracts a portions of a string.

Create a variable named `message` and assign it the string `"Welcome to freeCodeCamp!"`

```js
    const message = "Welcome to freeCodeCamp!";
    console.log("Here are some examples of the slice() method:");
```

## Step 8

Create a variable named `platform` Then assign it the result of using `message.slice(11, 23)` to extract `"freeCondeCamp"`.

```js

```

## Step 9

Use either a template literal or string concatenation to logo the message `The word "<platform>" was sliced from the message.` to the console. Replace `<platform>` with the actual value of the variable.

```js
    console.log(`The word "${platform}" was sliced from the message.`);
```

## Step 10

Create a variable named `greetingWord`. Then assign it the result of using `message.slice(0, 7)` to extract the first word `"Welcome"`.

Then use either a template literal or string concatenation to log the message `The first word is "<greetingWord>".` to the console. Replace <greetingWord> with the actual value of the variable.

```js
    const greetingWord = message.slice(0, 7);
    console.log(`The first word is "${greetingWord}".`);
```

## Step 11

Create a variable named `endPunctuation`. Then assign it the result of using `message.slice(-1)` to extract the last character.

Then use either a template or string concatenation to log the message `The ending punctuation mark is a "<endPunctuation>"` to the console. Replace <endPunctuation> with the actual value of the variable.

```js
    const endPunctuation = message.slice(-1);
    console.log(`The ending punctuation mark is a "${endPunctuation}"`);
```

## Step 12

As a final step, add a console.log() statement with the message: "Workshop complete! You now know how to use includes() and slice()."

```js
    console.log(`Workshop complete! You now know how to use includes() and slice().`);
```
